# Acceptance

I heard some profound advice from an anime this weekend. The sort of advice that you don't realise you need to hear, the
sort that you sort of already knew, yet hearing it in precisely this way, in precisely this context is the key that
makes everything click into place in your mind.

Specifically, this advice came from the anime 'Psycho Pass'. Psycho Pass is about a supposedly utopian (but increasingly
dystopian as the story unrolls) future in which crime is much rarer, and is often caught before it even happens. This is
possible because of the 'Sibyl system', which runs 'cymatic scans' on the population in order to measure their mental
state and therefore their probability of commiting a crime.

The mental state data is represented by a score and a 'hue'. The lower the score, the more mentally stable the person
and the clearer their hue. The score increases as people get more stressed, and their hues are described as 'getting
murky', until they become described by deep colours at high numbers.

For example, healthy hues seem to be numbers below 100, and are described as clear or white at the very low numbers and
increasingly dark colours as the number grows, like a light yellow or blue at slightly higher scores up to solid dark
reds and purples and browns at very high scores.

As the episodes continue, it becomes clear that people need to put significant effort into maintaining their hue - the
implication is that this is done with standard stress reduction techniques like therapy, general self-care and catharsis
in some cases.

Like when dealing with stress in the modern world, some seem to deal with stress naturally very well and some have a
much tougher time and have to put much more effort into their self-care. This is where the main character comes in -
Akane.

The story centers around the police in this future world and Akane is a brand new detective. The first episode starts
with Akane's first day.

todo: probably outline the structure of the police force here - specifically how it is split between enforcers and
'hound dogs'. The mentally well and necessarily detached enforcers are there simply to oversee the detectives, who
actually do all of the police work. The detectives all have hues outside of normal ranges and are therefore considered
latent criminals and cannot walk freely in society without the enforcers there.

Interestingly they seem quite normal, a little eccentric but not dangerous. Certainly more well adjusted than the senior
detective (lookup name here).

Over the course of the episodes, Akane insists upon getting involved in the cases despite the protestations of the
detectives themselves and her senior enforcer because they all believe, with good anecdotal reason, that it will cloud
her hue permanently and make her a latent criminal. To everyone's surprise, this does not happen, even after Akane sees
some truly harrowing things which should rightly destroy her mental state.

The senior enforcer, struggling with his own hue which at this stage is reaching the very limits of acceptable ranges
despite his efforts at self-care, asks one of the senior detectives how Akane's hue stays so pure - how it bounces back
so fast despite seeing truly horrifying things.

The senior detective replies that it is because Akane **accepts the world as it is**. Most people see the differences
between their ideal world and reality and cannot accept it, they rail against it and try to force it into being, or else
fixate on it and become depressed. In contrast, Akane sees it and accepts it. She might then attempt to change it, but
only after she has understood and accepted it.

Akane is consistently described as a high achiever in practically anything she attempts. She could have taken a job
anywhere, it is implied, yet she chose the police (which appears to not be a prestigious workplace due to the inherent
risk). She is clearly not stupid, yet she describes her only special skill as 'her ability to maintain her hue'. I
believe her prodigious academic achievements and this ability to maintain hue are strongly linked.

It makes intuitive sense - if she is good at everything, it is because she has the mental resilience to learn anything,
regardless of difficulty. She can see and accept her own abilities and can therefore learn quickly.

In short, her academic ability is a corollary to her strong mental resilience.

Akane is also willful, which might seem at odds with her easy acceptance of the world as it is, but on further analysis,
it makes sense. She has very clear goals in mind and a strong sense of justice. She wants the world to be a certain way
even despite accepting how it is now (or perhaps because she can see it so clearly this is why she was drawn to the
police in the first place).

Suffice to say, I find her very inspiring. That mental resilience, based in acceptance of reality, is something that I
wish I had, along with the mental stability, academic exceptionalism and morality that comes with it.

It might not come naturally to me, but acceptance is a skill that can be learned. A quick internet search uncovers a
range of techniques that can help with this. Top of the list, perhaps unsurprisingly is mindfulness practise. Also
practising gratitude, reframing thoughts and self-compassion.

As with maintaining a healthy body, maintaining a healthy mind is mundane. Tough but mundane.
