import Image from "next/image";

# Capoeira Derby Dev Diary

I've begun this project because the old Capoeira website is not optimal, in a number of ways.

First, it has no photos. This sort of thing needs to be 80% photos. Pictures speak a thousand words with these things.

Second, the website theme feels out of date, and has subtle bugs that I don't know how to fix. I have no doubt I could
improve the theme and work out the bugs, but given that it is built using wordpress, I also have no doubt that it would
take me as long to work out the bugs as it would to build it from scratch using React/NextJS.

Finally, the information on the website is out of date. This is relatively easy to update, especially in wordpress, but
it is unpleasant, and if I need to do any updates other than text, I am left grappling with the wordpress admin UI
again.

Combine all of these things and I have landed on the conclusion that it will be easier to build it from scratch than it
will be to update this website.

## 02/03/2025

### Aim: Replace the website?

I really was not sure how far I could get in one day. I hoped I'd get a functioning website churned out, though this was
certainly ambitious.

What I've actually gotten done is this:

<div className={`flex items-center justify-center`}>
  <Image
    src="/dev/capoeira-derby-home-page.png"
    alt={`A screenshot of the Capoeira Derby web page.`}
    width={300}
    height={300}
  />
</div>

The website theme and layout is taking shape. I have a working header with links, a nice friendly banner photo with all
of us smiling, a friendly colourful tagline and more photos alongside an introduction to the Derby Capoeira group.

There are a number of things left to do though. The theme is taking shape... but far from complete. The colours are
blunt and could be more subtle and complimentary.

The links don't yet go anywhere, and are unstyled, as are the CTAs.

The images could do with a bit of blending into the page.

The footer is incomplete.

It is not hosted nor deployed anywhere.

The page is totally unresponsive:

<div className={`flex items-center justify-center`}>
  <Image
    src="/dev/capoeira-derby-mobile-unresponsive.png"
    alt={`A screenshot of the Capoeira Derby web page in mobile mode. It does not look good.`}
    width={300}
    height={300}
  />
</div>

So certainly lots left to do!

But it has been rewarding work so far. Anything that helps channel traffic to the Capoeira group makes me happy.

I'd love to have this done by the end of next weekend.

**Next time:** Add some of the pages, starting with 'what is Capoeira?'

## 04/03/2025

### Aim: Add 'What is Capoeira?' page

Yep, certainly managed that! A couple of beers has certainly helped me not to overthink this.

I've added the new page, abstracted a few common components and made some of the standard things look a little bit
better.

<div className={`flex items-center justify-center`}>
  <Image
    src="/dev/capoeira-what-is-page.png"
    alt={`A screenshot of the new 'What is Capoeira?' page.`}
    width={300}
    height={300}
  />
</div>

It's been fun. Still quite a few pages left to add, but it's proper flow zone stuff. Easy-ish but a few tricky bits,
enough to not make me bored, plus it's nice to think about it actually being used and directing people to the group in a
positive way!

**Next time:** Add the next page - can i do Capoeira, think about making it responsive.

## 05/03/2025

### Aim: Add 'Can I do Capoeira?' page

The page specified above has indeed been added! I've had to take out a page talking about portuguese because it came
with a glossary, which I can't be bothered to add, and a section talking about Ligerinho's qualifications, which won't
work because he's no longer in the group!

It has made me question whether we ought to perhaps create a more standard FAqs page, and a separate page for some of
the sections within it - like one to talk about the instructors. Or could this be part of the 'Our Group' page? Perhaps.
For now I think I keep transcribing over the existing pages and we see how it goes when I've moved all of them over, we
see what else I'm missing.

Also... I've made it responsive!

<div className={`flex items-center justify-center`}>
  <Image
    src="/dev/responsive-capoeira.png"
    alt={`A screenshot of the newly responsive home page.`}
    width={300}
    height={300}
  />
</div>

Next time, I'm going to do the next page - classes - which might not be so simple. I think there is a better way to lay
out that information, which I will not at all try to work out myself, I will just ask ChatGPT!

## 08/03/2025

### Aim: Add the classes page

Added! This page was not as satisfying as the others. I've changed the layout quite a lot because it was shit before,
and is now... less shit but there are still issues.

<div className={`flex items-center justify-center`}>
  <Image
    src="/dev/capoeira-derby-classes-page.png"
    alt={`a screenshot of the new classes page.`}
    width={300}
    height={300}
  />
</div>

There is some text above the class cards that is a bit of a tagline but is styled more like a header - that needs a bit
more thought.

The address on the cards is formatted poorly, and the text on the cards generally is probably a bit small.

Finally, the CTA box at the bottom of the page is a bit bland. It feels like it needs to be a bit flashier. But those
are problems for another time.

There are a few of these 'problems for another time' mounting up. I sense that the final 10% of building this website
will not be as smooth as the initial 90%...

One last thing, I've been using ChatGPT heavily for layout suggestions on this page, too heavily. It's making my brain
feel sluggish. It makes me feel like I can't trust my own thoughts, like I must offload any problems onto ChatGPT. The
balance has not been right. Next time, I think I need to at least have an idea before I ask, or ask and then attempt to
implement it myself. Either way, ask and then try something, and then ask and then try something else. Not just chain
together multiple asks.

Ah, finally finally for real this time - I had a bit of a think (and also queried ChatGPT) on the layout. I think it's
not far off right as it is, but I think we can possibly combine the Capoeira history page and our group page, along with
adding some other bits.

We should also rename the 'can I do Capoeira' to FAQs, or something more standard like that.

So final page list could be:

- Home
- About (Our group, history of capoeira, expectations for new students)
  - Instructors - more info on a separate page
  - link off for a history of capoeira (or something - maybe links to Manchester or something like that)
- Classes
- Events (maybe hide this for now)
- Contact (just for ease of scanning)

Next time: Think more on this layout. Add the 'Our Group' page and think about maybe combining the pages.
